Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends, esteemed Dharma friends.
In today's regular Dharma discussion session
of the Golden Cup Club practicing the Six Harmonies, I
will share
with you a type of sin
where, when we commit it, we do
not suffer the consequences later.
To understand this, we will
discuss the Dharma in the 108th verse of the Sutra of the Immortal's Questions and
Answers, titled "Why is it that a monk who creates karma
without knowing why he is not guilty?" Please
join hands and recite the
Buddha's name for protection before
we begin this Dharma discussion.
Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni
[music] Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Esteemed
Dharma friends, now I will
read the
sutra. The Venerable Buddha taught that
those who do not know the nature of evil deeds and commit them,
such as killing or stealing, are
guilty of serious offenses. However, the Ten-Power Wisdom Buddha
taught in the Vinaya that those who create
evil deeds without knowing do not commit offenses.
So, if we believe the
first theory, we cannot believe the second.
These two theories are like two paths that
cannot meet, or like
a vast, insurmountable ocean separating them. I beg the Venerable
Master to clarify this slowly. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, a truly enlightened person is like this:
When they
encounter
doubt in their understanding, they seek someone to
ask – that is the mark of an enlightened person. But
we, as true scholars, are those
who only learn, perhaps through self-
study, then think for
ourselves, and then believe our own understanding is correct without asking
anyone else. Therefore, we must be
learners like enlightened people, meaning
we must ask many questions. Sometimes, self-study isn't always right, and if one person isn't satisfied, we must
ask many more. We should
learn in this way: these two statements may seem
contradictory; if one is correct, the other is
wrong. So why
is the Buddha called the Fully Enlightened One?
Why are there such statements in
Buddhism? The Buddha taught this:
the things we say...  Don't be too quick to believe;
you must think things through. You must
learn from wise people in
those fields, things that have been praised by the wise.
If, in practice,
that action is good and brings
you benefit, then you will believe that
our Buddha is wonderful. Speaking
of human rights, the Buddha was a
famous human rights advocate,
very egalitarian. Taking refuge in the Buddha
is also a voluntary act, a personal choice.
For example,
when a child is young, parents can initiate
them, but that refuge only has value
when the child independently studies the teachings of
Buddhism,
desires to practice the Buddha's teachings,
and sees the benefits of taking refuge. Only then is it
truly effective; only then is one a true
disciple of the Buddha. Not everyone who takes refuge in the Buddha is considered a true disciple.
However, if one does not
practice the Buddha's teachings, the Buddha still says they
are not a disciple of the Buddha. This is because the
Buddha greatly respects the
rights of all sentient beings, and
this respect is not something the Buddha
invented, but a fundamental truth. Because...
Who can force anyone to do anything? A thought arises, and
people will reap the consequences of
that thought; no one bestows anything upon them.
Therefore,
King Mindā practiced the
Buddha's teachings correctly, believing that
faith must come from understanding and
enlightenment. Please continue reading the
scripture; it's very simple. Your Majesty, whoever
commits evil deeds without knowing them—
meaning they don't know the evil
but have created it—will do so intentionally, deliberately, through
imagination, through the mind, and thus will suffer
severe karmic retribution. That is a natural consequence.
Let's analyze this point:
that person doesn't know it's an evil deed, but in
reality, it is an evil deed, yet they create it
with this mindset. The mind is intentional, the mind is deliberate, the
mind is through imagination, through the mind, through the creation. That means
it must be an element within the mind. A
careful analysis shows it's intentional. Although one
doesn't know it's an evil deed, one intentionally
does it. For example, some
people have
this mindset: things nourish humans, so they kill animals
to eat. Because they don't know it's an
evil deed, they think it's just a matter of
things.  People
don't know it's evil, but they
intentionally kill their daughter,
intentionally kill a fish to eat, intentionally
kill a mosquito, intentionally kill everything. That's
because of the intention in one's heart, and they will all suffer the consequences.
Another reason
is that they intentionally do it without knowing it's evil. It means that if they didn't know it was evil, they would
intentionally do it. That is, if they did
n't need to do it,
they would do it intentionally. It means their heart wants to do it, it's
in their mind, but it's intentional. For example,
it's only in their thoughts, but their
heart is already fully prepared for the act.
For instance, someone advises
them, saying, "Stop hitting it, it's so pitiful,"
but they still hit it. The intentionality is
due to their heart, and the deliberate
act is because they've been advised against it. The evil act is done even after
someone advises against it. For example, someone
says, "Don't steal from others," but they intentionally steal. Or, in an act of killing, it's easier to do it, for instance, in a certain place. Someone might say, "Don't steal
from people," but they intentionally steal.
Or, in an act of
killing, it's easier to do it, for
example, in that dish.  Today's meal
involves killing two
chickens and butchering a dog.
That's because I have the intention to kill.
But some people don't
have the intention to kill; it's because I'm the one who instigates
others to do it intentionally. That is, the
intention is to kill.
That's the case where someone intentionally wants to
kill, just keeps saying it. Kill it. Why kill it? That
's just my intention, not my heart. I just
say it so they kill. It's only
in my mind. Or someone else
advises me, but I intentionally
kill. There
are many
cases where I intentionally kill, for example,
someone commits
evil deeds against me, and then I'm
advised against it, I'm reasoned with it,
but I don't. I
intentionally go there, I intentionally go to teach them
a lesson.
Because I intentionally go there to
teach them a lesson.  Learning, but not actually
killing someone—that's intentional, you know.
For example, if a dog bites you,
you say you'll go out and beat
it up—that's intentional,
your heart wants to beat it up. Then someone
advises you, saying, "Stop, beat it gently." You say, "Okay,
I'll just beat it a little more,
a few more lashes." That's intentional,
but a few more lashes and it'll die.
That's intentional killing, you know. It's intentional, it's
deliberate, and it's also because of the thought that you know. It's because
your heart knows that it will
die, that it will kill. For example, in
war, the commander is
n't the one directly fighting, but
their mindset
plans to fight and kill, and it
's completely evil. For example, the person who
planned and calculated to create the
bomb to drop on two cities in
Japan—that belongs to Chiang Kai-shek. It
means you know
how many lives that bomb will destroy. That
's because Chiang Kai-shek knew, not the other way around.  It's
not about personally dropping the bomb,
but about
people, for example, scientists who
create the bomb.
Those who plan it are
people who, through their imagination, know that
this will lead to murder. Or they know
this and sell the
formula to people, giving them a drug called a
killer. I have to say, it's all due
to imagination. It's because of thought, because of
the mind's influence. That's because of evil intentions.
This evil intention is: "I
want to kill that person, so
I'll hire you for this money to do it." That
's the mind's influence. Or consider
people who run restaurants, for example, who engage in
killing. It's because of their minds;
they think about
profit and calculate. They calculate, and
that's called the mind's influence.
They calculate, and every day
their minds are calculating, like today.
This month, I killed 300
animals and sold 300. Next month, I need to
reach 500 or 700, then
push through all sorts of
marketing and other things to sell
more. That's called the mind creating
karma. That's one of all evil
deeds, and that's why I have to suffer the
consequences. Here, I'm just giving an
example of the karma of killing. The
karma of adultery is the same.
For example,
seeing two people who have feelings for
each other, one already married, or
both married,
but due to some situation, for instance, a
boss, you arrange it.
That's intentional. That's the mind creating karma.
Even though I'm
not the adulterer, I intentionally
help or manipulate them to engage in
adultery, or
because my mind wants to exploit
them for something else. For example,
today I...  Bringing someone
to seduce this boss so that the
boss will sign this document is due to the intention behind the act, and
therefore we will suffer the consequences of evil deeds.
Buddhists, we should contemplate this in our Five Precepts. For
example, lying and
slander are also done intentionally because
of hatred or jealousy towards
someone. Seeing someone else being slandered,
we join in the slander to
harm them. That is the intention behind the act. And
when
someone says, "No, they're not guilty,"
we try to add to the slander because of that mindset. The intention is added to
harm others. These
are all actions that will bring karmic
consequences. Remember, dear Buddhists, to
contemplate broadly within the Five Precepts and in
all matters related to
you so that you will never suffer
the consequences of your own intentions.  This is intentional,
this is deliberate, then it's due to imagination,
then it's due to the mind's creation. Because of imagination,
we know that we suspect
this or we know clearly that
this is a bad thing, that this
is slandering someone, that this is
harming someone, yet we know
this but still go along with
it. That's called it due to imagination,
due to the mind's creation. We will think
deeply about each specific issue so that we
know which sin will cause us to
suffer the consequences after we commit it.
Please continue reading the scriptures. The
Venerable Na-tien continues to speak, but in the
law, the Buddha says that monks who
commit evil deeds do so because they don't know, they don't commit the
sin of not knowing. This means
they commit evil deeds but not intentionally, not deliberately,
not intentionally, not knowing,
not creating the mind, so there is no sin. Dear fellow
practitioners, you may have committed a sin, but
firstly, you didn't know it was an evil
deed. Secondly, your mind didn't want to
create it. Furthermore, you didn't intentionally,
you didn't try.  The above is due to intention and not
knowing, that is, but above,
not knowing, that is evil karma, not knowing that it
is evil karma, but with intention, deliberate,
due to imagination, due to the mind's creation, then one
suffers. But here, what kind of sins are these?
Although not knowing is evil karma, the
two are similar, but with intention,
deliberate, knowing, and a mind's creation,
we will suffer the consequences. These are two
different things, but you esteemed fellow practitioners understand
this point, right? We don't know it's evil
karma, but we say there's no
thought of intention in this matter, no intention, no imagination, no
idea, and no concept of
wanting to create
that action. Then we don't suffer the consequences. There
was a Buddhist who asked Yen, "Today I
accidentally dropped and broke a Buddha statue, am I
guilty?" That's not a
sin because you didn't do it intentionally, without intention,
without imagination, without a mind's creation, so
you're not guilty. And that applies to all
aspects; there are
people who accidentally drop a statue.  The Buddha statue that was worn
around the neck was also very frightening to be asked about.
That was unintentional, not deliberate, so there was
no sin. It was just a matter of confessing to the
Buddha, confessing that I
had accidentally dropped and broken
His statue. That's all. And that's it, there was
no sin.
Although not confessing wouldn't be a sin,
because we respect the Buddha, we
respect His image, and we do
n't want to be
careless like that again, so we confess.
That's what a disciple of the Buddha does, showing respect to the Buddha. Dear fellow
practitioners, please understand this point. Dear fellow
practitioners, the lecture is very
long, but please go to the
page of Master Thich Chuc
Thai Minh to listen to the lecture on "One of the 108 Sutras of the
Immortals and Questions and Answers." The lecture is very extensive, but
I only want to highlight one point so
that
we can understand it clearly in
each case, as an example,
so that you can apply it to
all your own situations.
Which cases are guilty and which are
not? Knowing the consequences later,
our minds will be at peace. Therefore, enlightenment brings
peace; without enlightenment, there is no peace because
our minds are not clear.
We worry about things that are already burdened with sorrow, grief, and old
age, and that will give rise to
negative consequences. For example, if
we shouldn't have to suffer consequences, but
we worry and fear because we don't know,
sometimes
we blame ourselves and
others. At this very moment of sorrow, grief, and old age, we can create new karma. For instance, if
someone harms us, and we
don't carefully analyze whether it's
due to old karma, or if they're creating
new karma, or if we're creating
new karma, then we easily create
new karma when we're unclear and do
n't understand. We should have apologized to the
person
we harmed because of old karma.  It's
not necessarily the
case that people have to apologize to you. It's
not like that. For example, if
you park your car
on the road and it's blocking the way for two
people, causing a collision and an
accident,
but it damages your car,
you don't understand that you're
committing a new sin. Instead, you blame the other
person, demand compensation, and make a fuss. You've just
committed a new sin, and because you're
not enlightened, you
continue to commit new sins. Eventually,
the consequences will come to you because you lack
enlightenment.
Let's analyze each situation individually. When we have this enlightened knowledge, and we
analyze each case,
we can stop our
karma and act in ways that
transform our
old karma, which is very beneficial, my dear fellow practitioners.
I wish you all the best in diligently
studying and practicing Buddhist teachings, achieving enlightenment, and
applying those enlightened principles to achieve
results.  To attain enlightenment and find happiness and
peace, Yen will invite all of you, dear fellow practitioners, to encourage each
other in your practice. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. At this time, I
invite all of you, dear fellow practitioners, to join
hands and dedicate the merit
[music].
May
this merit be
directed towards all
disciples and sentient beings, that they may all
choose to attain Buddhahood.
[music]
ch